>> THERE ARE OVER 6
MILLION GAY AND LESBIAN
PARENTS IN THE
UNITED STATES TODAY.
AND APPROXIMATELY 14
MILLION CHILDREN BEING
RAISED IN GAY HOUSEHOLDS.
THIS FILM FEATURES SIX GAY
FAMILIES WITH THEIR
11 CHILDREN.
FROM CARTER AT ONE MONTH
OF AGE TO SAM AT
18 YEARS.
THEIR COURAGE IN LETTING
US INTO THEIR LIVES OPENS
A WORLD OF CHILDREN OF
SAME-SEX PARENTS, THEIR
STRUGGLES AND SUCCESSES.
A GROWING NUMBER OF
FAMILIES IN THE U.S.
HAVE HOMES IN WHICH
LESBIAN MOMS HAVE BEEN
INSEMINATED BY DONORS.
OTHERS HAVE HOMES WHERE
SAME-SEX PARENTS HAVE
ADOPTED.
AND MOST RECENTLY WE FIND
CO-PARENTING HOMES IN
WHICH GAY AND LESBIAN
COUPLES HAVE COME TOGETHER
TO RAISE THEIR FAMILIES.
THESE FAMILIES ARE THE
SUBJECT OF THIS FILM.
>> WHAT MIGHT THE
AVERAGE PERSON THINK
OF THESE FAMILIES?
WE HEAD OUT TO MAIN
STREET USA TO FIND OUT.
>> I THINK IT'S POSITIVE.
DEFINITELY.
>> GROWING UP
IN A GAY FAMILY?
>> I THINK THAT THEY
MIGHT BE MORE TOLERANT
OF OTHERS.
>> I THINK IT WOULD BE
CONFLICTING FOR THE
CHILDREN.
THEY HAVE TWO DADS OR TWO
MOMS, BUT YET ONE OF THEM
IS SUPPOSED TO BE A MOM,
ONE IS SUPPOSED TO BE A
DAD, YOU KNOW.
>> WELL A LOT OF PEOPLE
CONSIDER IT UNNATURAL.
>> I THINK THAT THE
GENERAL PUBLIC THOUGH
FEELS, YOU KNOW, YOU HAVE
TO HAVE A MOM AND A DAD.
YOU HAVE TO HAVE THE MALE
ROLE MODELS AND OF THE
FEMALE ROLE MODELS.
BUT YOU KNOW, I FEEL THAT
YOU CAN GET THAT FROM
GRANDPARENTS OR
FRIENDS OF THE FAMILY.
>> YOU KNOW, IF THEY CAN
BE RESPONSIBLE PARENTS AND
RAISE THE KIDS IN A
MORALLY CORRECT MANNER,
I HAVE NO PROBLEM
WITH IT WHATSOEVER.
>> I DON'T HAVE ANY
STRONG OPINION,
ONE WAY OR THE OTHER.
I THINK PEOPLE ARE PEOPLE.
AND I THINK TO THE EXTENT
THAT THEY HAVE GOOD MORALS
REGARDLESS OF THEIR SEXUAL
ORIENTATION, IF THEY HAVE
KIDS AND THEY
CAN RAISE KIDS.
I DON'T HAVE A PROBLEM.
>> A LOT OF PEOPLE DON'T
SHARE YOUR POINT OF VIEW.
WHAT TO YOU THINK THEIR
MAJOR CONCERNS ARE?
>> WELL I THINK
PEOPLE ARE SCARED.
FEAR IS ALWAYS A BIG
DRIVER FOR OPINIONS.
SO PEOPLE THAT DON'T
UNDERSTAND ANOTHER
LIFESTYLE TEND TO FEAR IT.
>> BUT A LOT OF PEOPLE
TEND TO HAVE RESERVATIONS
ABOUT SUCH THINGS.
WHERE DO YOU THINK THAT
COMES FROM AND WHY ARE
THEY SO AFRAID?
>> THAT'S THAT RIGHT-WING
MORAL RELIGIOUS WHATEVER
THEY GOT IN THEIR HEAD.
THAT'S JUST A
BUNCH OF GARBAGE.
>> I THINK IT'S
A GOOD IDEA.
I THINK IT'S ABOUT TIME
THAT AMERICA CAUGHT UP
WITH THE REST OF EUROPE
AND THE WORLD AND WOKE UP
AND SAID THIS IS THE WAY
IT'S GOING TO BE AND IT'S
NOT GOING TO GO AWAY.
SO THEY SHOULD BE
EDUCATED ON IT.
WELL I COME FROM IRELAND
WHERE IT'S 99.9% CATHOLICS
AND IT'S SOMETHING WHICH
TRADITIONALLY WE'RE
SUPPOSED TO BE AGAINST.
AND IF IRELAND CAN CHANGE
ITS POINT OF VIEWS, I'M
SURE AMERICA CAN.
>> SIX FAMILIES HAVE
WELCOMED US INTO THEIR
HOMES.
LET'S BRIEFLY MEET THESE
PERSONS WHO ARE THE
SUBJECT OF THIS
DOCUMENTARY.
WE'LL BEGIN WITH TWO
FAMILIES THAT STARTED WITH
CLINIC INSEMINATIONS.
HERE ARE VIOLA AND LESLEE
WITH THEIR SON SAM.
LESLEE AND VI HAVE BEEN IN
A COMMITTED RELATIONSHIP
FOR 25 YEARS.
LESLIE HAD SAM VIA DONOR
INSEMINATION 18 YEARS AGO.
AND SHE AND VI HAVE
RAISED SAM IN THEIR QUIET
SUBURBAN NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> SUSAN AND COREEN
WERE IN A COMMITTED
RELATIONSHIP
FOR SEVEN YEARS.
AFTER SEPARATING THEY
MAINTAIN HOMES JUST A FEW
BLOCKS FROM ONE ANOTHER.
WHEN THEY WERE TOGETHER
SUSAN GAVE BIRTH
TO MEGGAN.
THREE YEARS LATER COREEN
HAD TRIPLET BOYS, JESSE,
ANTHONY AND ORION.
BOTH PREGNANCIES WERE
THE RESULT OF DONOR
INSEMINATION BY
THE SAME DONOR.
>> IT WAS AN EARLY
CONVERSATION THAT WHEN
COREEN AND I WERE FIRST
TOGETHER WE HAVE HAD.
AND I REALLY BEFORE THAT
DIDN'T FORESEE CHILDREN IN
MY FUTURE BECAUSE OF THE
LIFESTYLE THAT I LEAD.
BUT IT WAS DEFINITELY
IN COREEN'S FUTURE.
AND SO WE HAD EXTENSIVE
CONVERSATIONS ABOUT IT.
AND I DID WANT CHILDREN IN
MY LIFE, GROWING UP WITH A
FAMILY, BEING SECOND OUT
OF SIX IN A LARGE FAMILY.
SO WE EDUCATED OURSELVES,
AND HERE WE ARE, GOT KIDS.
>> SO WHAT OPTIONS
DID YOU CONSIDER?
>> SUE: WE
CONSIDERED ADOPTION.
AND THEN IN VITRO.
OR ACTUALLY, INTRAUTERINE
INSEMINATION.
WE TALKED ABOUT ADOPTION,
BUT WE WANTED, IF WE COULD
TO HAVE OUR OWN CHILDREN.
TO TRY TO START
WITH THAT FIRST.
AND THEN IF THERE WERE ANY
BARRIERS TO THAT, THEN
LOOKING AT ADOPTION.
>> IT WAS PROBABLY TWO
YEARS BEFORE THAT.
TWO OR THREE YEARS AS
SAYING "NO, YOU DO IT.
NO, I'LL DO IT.
NO, YOU DO IT." .
OR VI SAYING "WE PROBABLY
SHOULDN'T DO IT." .
>> I DIDN'T WANT TO.
I JUST THOUGHT IT
WOULD BE TOO HARD.
ON HIM, NOT SO MUCH
US, BUT HIS LIFE.
>> WHAT WERE YOU
WORRIED ABOUT?
>> VIOLA: SOCIAL
PRESSURES.
>> LIKE WHAT?
GIVE US SOME
EXAMPLES OF WHAT.
>> VIOLA: BEING SET APART.
VERY DIFFERENT
FROM THE GET-GO.
NOT SO MUCH HIM, BUT US.
AND THAT KIND OF PRESSURE
THAT WOULD BE PUT UPON A
YOUNG PERSON, I
THOUGHT WAS TOO MUCH.
>> SO DID YOU TRY
TALKING HER OUT OF IT?
>> LESLEE: OH YEAH.
AND SEE, IT WORKED.
IT WORKED.
SO YEAH, I MEAN, I SAID
"NO, WE CAN DO IT." .
BACK IN, WHAT I'M CALLING
BACK IN THE DAY; IT SOUNDS
LIKE IT WAS A LONG TIME
AGO; MY OB/GYN, I SPOKE TO
HIM ABOUT THAT.
NOT BEING A GAY WOMAN, I
SPOKE TO HIM AS BEING A
SINGLE PARENT WHOSE
BIOLOGICAL CLOCK IS
TICKING AND HEY, THIS
IS WHAT I WANT TO DO.
SO HE AND HIS NURSE
MADE ARRANGEMENTS.
AND UNFORTUNATELY, WE KNOW
NOTHING ABOUT THE DONOR.
THEY TOLD US HE WAS
A MEDICAL STUDENT.
THAT HE WAS MARRIED.
AND HE WAS 6 FOOT 1 OR 2.
AND THAT'S ABOUT
ALL WE KNOW.
I DON'T KNOW, THEY
COULD'VE GONE DOWN THE
HALLWAY AND
SAID "HEY, YOU." .
>> OUR NEXT FAMILIES
STARTED WITH CLOSE
FRIENDSHIPS AMONGST
SEVERAL OF THE MEMBERS.
AND WITH TIME AND MUCH
DISCUSSION LED TO
CO-PARENTING HOMES.
>> DAVID AND GREG WERE
MARRIED IN A TRADITIONAL
JEWISH CEREMONY 11 YEARS
AGO AND IN A CIVIL
CEREMONY IN CANADA
FIVE YEARS AGO.
DAVID AND GREG DECIDED TO
CO-PARENT WITH CARYN, A
PAST FRIEND OF DAVID'S.
CARYN LIVES IN THE NEXT
BLOCK AND THE THREE OF
THEM SHARE CO-PARENTING
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THEIR
DAUGHTER SASHA
BORN 18 MONTHS AGO.
ALLISON AND LISA AND
GEOFFREY AND MARK ARE
COMMITTED GAY COUPLES
LIVING IN ADJOINED HOMES.
GEOFFREY IS THE BIOLOGICAL
FATHER OF BOTH ZIAN
AND ELIOT.
ALLISON IS THE
MOTHER OF ZIAN.
LISA IS THE
MOTHER OF ELIOT.
THESE FOUR ADULTS AND
TWO CHILDREN COMPRISE A
CO-PARENTING FAMILY.
>> I REALLY THINK WHEN I
THINK ABOUT WHAT'S THE
HARDEST THING ABOUT BEING
A GAY PARENT FOR ME IS
JUST BEING A PARENT.
LIKE JUST DEALING WITH MY
TWO CHILDREN AS BEST AS I
POSSIBLY CAN AND BEING
PATIENT AND LOVING.
AND YOU KNOW, LIKE HAVING
ENOUGH SLEEP SO I CAN MAKE
THE BEST DECISION.
THOSE KINDS OF
THINGS, RIGHT.
AND THAT WE DO THAT
TOGETHER AS A FOURSOME
DOESN'T MAKE THAT ANY
DIFFERENT REALLY THAN I
IMAGINE WHAT
MOST PEOPLE DO.
AND IT'S LIKE, WELL THIS
KID HAS A PARTICULAR
CHALLENGE.
HOW DO WE PARENT HIM BEST?
RIGHT.
AND THAT SEEMS TO BE...
FOR ME RIGHT NOW, I WOULD
SAY THAT'S THE MOST
CHALLENGING THING.
BEING AN OUT GAY
DAD IS LIKE...
>> IT'S MINOR
>> GEOFFREY: IT'S
REALLY MINOR.
>> I HAD ALWAYS
WANTED TO BE A PARENT.
I HAD ALWAYS WANTED
TO HAVE KIDS.
BUT I'M VERY MUCH A
WORKAHOLIC AND VERY MUCH
DEVOTED TO MY CAREER.
AND KNEW AS A GAY MAN IT
WAS UNLIKELY THAT I'D EVER
HAVE KIDS.
AND SO IT WAS SORT OF
AN IDEAL SITUATION
TO STUMBLE INTO.
AND NOT ONLY DO WE HAVE
KIDS, BUT IT REALLY IS...
I CAN'T FATHOM
BEING A DUAL PARENT.
I MEAN, I CAN'T IMAGINE
JUST TWO PARENTS.
I CAN'T IMAGINE THAT YOU'D
HAVE TIME TO DO ANYTHING
AND BE YOURSELF STILL
WHILE YOU'RE RAISING
YOUR KIDS.
AND SO IT'S ACTUALLY, IT
REALLY IS SORT OF A VERY
PRIVILEGED AND IDEAL
SITUATION TO BE IN.
>> SO WE MOVED HERE.
AND ONLY AFTER WE MOVED
HERE DID WE START TALKING
WITH CARYN ABOUT
TO CO-PARENTING.
WE HAVE HAD OUR OWN
CONVERSATIONS ABOUT IF WE
WANTED TO BECOME PARENTS,
AND IF YES HOW WE WOULD
THEN DO IT.
SO THE FIRST STAGE WAS THE
PROCESS OF DECIDING TO
BECOME PARENTS.
>> AND SO FOR GAY MEN LIKE
US, WHO'VE BEEN GAY THE
BULK OF OUR ADULT LIVES,
THE THREE OPTIONS ARE
SURROGACY, ADOPTION
OR CO-PARENTING.
SURROGACY FOR ME
JUST DOESN'T WORK.
THE SYMBOLICNESS OF USING,
PAYING ANOTHER WOMAN TO
USE HER WOMB JUST DOESN'T
RESONATE WITH ME.
I KNOW PEOPLE WHO WHO'VE
DONE IT AND I HAVE NO
JUDGMENT AGAINST THEIR
DECISIONS, BUT FOR ME IT
JUST SEEMS NOT SOMETHING
I WAS WILLING TO DO.
>> DAVID: THERE'S
SOME JUDGMENT.
>> GREG: IT'S ALSO
VERY EXPENSIVE.
AND ACTUALLY FRANKLY,
WE COULDN'T AFFORD IT.
ADOPTION INVOLVES THE
STATE IN A LEGAL WAY IN
VERY INTIMATE DETAILS
OF OUR LIVES THAT FELT
ACTUALLY VERY INTRUSIVE
AND DISRESPECTFUL.
>> DAVID: THE WHOLE IDEA
OF HAVING A STATE HAVE TO
SANCTIFY OUR FAMILY WAS
SOMETHING THAT I WAS NOT
AT ALL INTERESTED IN.
SO WE ACTUALLY PRETTY...
FRANKLY WE WERE
ELIMINATING WAYS OF HAVING
FAMILIES QUICKER THAN WE
WERE COMING UP WITH WAYS
TO ACTUALLY HAVE FAMILIES.
>> TWO OF THESE FAMILIES
WERE ESTABLISHED WHEN GAY
COUPLES CHOSE TO ADOPT.
MARY AND JEANNIE HAVE BEEN
IN A RELATIONSHIP FOR
18 YEARS.
SEVERAL YEARS AGO MARY
BECAME VERY CONCERNED
ABOUT THE WELFARE OF HER
TWO GREAT NIECES WHO WERE
BEING SEVERELY NEGLECTED
BY THEIR BIOLOGICAL
PARENTS.
TWO YEARS AGO THE COURT
SYSTEM PLACED THESE TWO
SISTERS IN THE FOSTER CARE
OF THEIR GREAT AUNT MARY
WITH HER PARTNER JEANNIE.
WITH RECENT COLORADO LAW
CHANGES, MARY AND JEANNIE
HAVE BOTH BECOME THE
ADOPTIVE MOMS OF MORGAN
AND EVINN.
THE FIRST LEGAL ADOPTION
BY A GAY COUPLE IN THE
STATE OF COLORADO.
>> JUDGE: AND THAT THESE
CHILDREN SHALL BE AND ARE
HEREBY ENTITLED TO ALL
RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES AND
SUBJECT TO ALL OBLIGATIONS
OF A CHILD PURSUANT
TO STATUTE.
CONGRATULATIONS.
>> JOHN AND STEVE MET AT
THE NATIONAL WESTERN STOCK
SHOW IN 2000.
WHERE JOHN OWNER OF A
HORSE FARM SHOWS HIS
HORSES ON A YEARLY BASIS.
STEVE IS A NATUROPATH
AND COLLEGE PROFESSOR.
JOHN HAS ALWAYS KNOWN THAT
HE WANTED CHILDREN, BUT
BEING A SINGLE GAY MAN HE
THOUGHT THAT IT MIGHT
BE IMPOSSIBLE.
AFTER JOHN AND STEVE
BECAME PARTNERS THEY
DECIDED THEY WANTED
TO PARENT TOGETHER.
THEY INITIALLY
CONSIDERED FOSTER CARE.
THEY THEN PURSUED
ADOPTION AND SURROGACY.
AFTER TRAVELING TO THE
UKRAINE FOR A POSSIBLE
INTERNATIONAL ADOPTION AND
HAVING SPENT OVER $20,000,
ALL OF THEIR ATTEMPTS
ENDED IN FRUSTRATION
AND REJECTION.
MOST RECENTLY THEY
CONTACTED ANOTHER
ADOPTION AGENCY.
AND IN THE LAST MONTH
HAVE BECOME THE ADOPTIVE
PARENTS OF CARTER.
DANIELLE THE BIOLOGICAL
MOTHER HAS AGREED TO AN
OPEN ADOPTION.
>> I GOT A CALL FROM
OUR ADOPTION AGENCY,
ADOPTION ALLIANCE.
THEY ACTUALLY
SAW SOMETHING...
THEY ACTUALLY HAD A
CONNECTION TO SOMEBODY
THROUGH THE GILL
FOUNDATION, AND THE GILL
FOUNDATION ON THEIR
WEBSITE HAD POSTED
THIS SITUATION.
THE NEW ADOPTION AGENCY,
CREATIVE ADOPTIONS, WHICH
IS THE ADOPTION AGENCY
THAT THE BIRTH MOTHER WAS
USING, CONTACTED
THE GILL FOUNDATION.
BECAUSE THE BIRTH MOTHER
REQUESTED A
MALE/MALE COUPLE.
>> JUST HEARING THEIR
STORY, THEY HAD BEEN
THROUGH SO MUCH.
JUST SO MUCH TRYING
TO HAVE A BABY.
AND YOU COULD JUST SEE,
YOU KNOW, THE NURTURING
NATURE THAT THEY BOTH HAD
AND HOW MUCH THEY LOVED
EACH OTHER AND HAD BEEN
TOGETHER FOR SO LONG.
SO I KNEW RIGHT AWAY.
I MEAN, I KNEW WITHIN FIVE
MINUTES ON THE PHONE, BUT
WE DECIDED TO MEET ANYWAY,
YOU KNOW, THAT GOD HAD SET
ME STRAIGHT TO
THESE PEOPLE.
AND THEY SAY
THE SAME THING.
THEY HAD BEEN
LOOKING FOREVER.
I'D BEEN LOOKING FOREVER.
AND WE WERE IN EACH
OTHER'S BACKYARD.
IT WAS JUST...
YOU KNOW, THE DAY WE MET
GOD WAS IN THE ROOM
THAT DAY.
>> STEVE: JOHN WAS OUT
RIDING A HORSE AND I WAS
IN THE HOUSE.
AND HE WAS ON ONE PHONE
OUT IN THE BARN AND I WAS
AT ONE OF THE PHONES UP
AT THE HOUSE, AND HAD A,
WHAT?
A TWO HOUR, HOUR AND A
HALF PHONE CALL WITH HER.
AND IT WAS JUST...
IT WAS THE RIGHT MATCH.
WE HAD A REAL STRONG
FEELING THAT THIS WAS....
>> THIS WAS IT.
>> STEVE: YEAH.
THIS WAS A
POSSIBILITY FOR US.
>> EACH OF THESE SIX
FAMILIES HAS FACED
MANY CHALLENGES.
SOME HAVE FACED CRITICISM
FROM THEIR OWN EXTENDED
FAMILIES AS WELL AS FROM
OTHERS OUTSIDE THEIR
FAMILIES, SUCH AS
TEACHERS, NEIGHBORS AND
OTHER PERSONS FROM
THEIR COMMUNITIES.
>> SUE: AS FAR AS BEING A
GOOD EXAMPLE AS A PARENT
AND HAVING OUR CHILDREN,
YOU KNOW, BE THE EXAMPLE
OF AS FAR AS,
YES, IT'S TRUE.
AND THERE IS, I THINK
THERE IS PROOF BEHIND THE
THEORY THAT GAY PARENTS
CAN RAISE GOOD CHILDREN IN
A LOVING HOME.
AND IT'S WORTHWHILE, A
CHILD IS WORTHWHILE.
YOU KNOW.
>> I HAD ONE OF MY CLOSEST
FRIENDS TELL ME THAT, AND
NOT TO BE MEAN OR
ANYTHING, BUT...
AND I JUST, I KNEW THERE
WAS SOMEBODY OUT THERE WHO
WANTED TO DO THAT.
I JUST KNEW THAT SOMEONE
THAT EITHER HAD A GAY
BROTHER OR A CLOSE FRIEND,
AND I JUST KNEW IT
WAS THERE.
>> MARY AND JEANNIE HAVE
EXPERIENCED EXTRAORDINARY
PROBLEMS IN THEIR JOURNEY
TO ADOPT MORGAN AND EVINN.
THEY ARE ONE OF THE
GROWING PERCENTAGE OF GAY
AND LESBIAN COUPLES WHO'VE
ADOPTED SPECIAL NEEDS
CHILDREN.
>> SO TWO YEARS AGO WE
WERE ACTUALLY ASKED BY
SOCIAL SERVICES AS A
COUPLE IF WE WERE WILLING
TO ADOPT THEM TOGETHER.
AND AT THAT TIME, EVINN
ACTUALLY WAS NOT EVEN IN
THE PICTURE, IT
WAS JUST MORGAN.
AND WE WERE GETTING
EVERYTHING TAKEN CARE OF
AND THE NECESSARY
THINGS TO TAKE MORGAN
PERMANENTLY.
AND THEY INFORMED US THAT
THERE WAS ANOTHER BABY ON
THE WAY, AND THAT IF WE
WANTED TO TAKE MORGAN WE
NEEDED TO TAKE THE BABY.
SO WE BECAME INVOLVED
AT THAT POINT.
>> DO YOU THINK MORGAN AND
EVINN'S BEING WITH YOU IS
BETTER THAN BEING WITH
THEIR BIOLOGICAL PARENTS?
>> JEANNIE: OH YES.
>> MARY: ABSOLUTELY.
THEY WERE IN A DRUG
INFESTED FILTHY HOME THAT
PUBLIC HEALTH DIDN'T EVEN
WANT ANYBODY TO LIVE IN,
LET ALONE A CHILD.
AND THAT WAS WHAT MORGAN
WAS IN FOR TWO YEARS.
AND NO MATTER AGAIN WHAT
WE DID DO; CLEAN THE
HOUSE, TO DO THINGS TO
PROVIDE SUPPORT, PROVIDE
HOUSECLEANING, WHAT SOCIAL
SERVICES DID TO PROVIDE
PARENTING, ALL
OF THOSE THINGS.
WHAT WE ALL DID FOR
FURNITURE, YOU NAME IT.
ALL THE NECESSARY SUPPORTS
TO PROVIDE A HOME.
NONE OF THAT EVER LASTED.
>> GETTING THE
SERVICES THEY NEED.
THEY'RE IN A STABLE
SAFE ENVIRONMENT.
THEY KNOW THAT THEY
WILL NOT BE LEFT ALONE.
THEY KNOW THAT WE WILL
PICK THEM UP AFTER SCHOOL.
THEY KNOW THEY GET FED,
THREE, FOUR, FIVE TIMES
A DAY.
THE BABY TENDS TO GRAZE.
>> MARY: SHE
GRAZES ALL DAY.
>> JEANNIE: SHE WOULD EAT
ALL DAY IF WE LET HER.
>> MARY: SHE WOULD.
>> JEANNIE: THEY
ABSOLUTELY KNOW WHO THEIR
FAMILY IS.
MORGAN'S GOING TO HAVE A
BIRTHDAY PARTY FOR THE
FIRST TIME IN HER LIFE.
>> STEVE AND JOHN WERE
OFTEN TOLD THAT THEIR ONLY
POSSIBILITY OF ADOPTION
WOULD BE A SPECIAL NEEDS
CHILD.
>> STEVE: I HATE TO SAY
IT, BUT IT'S ALMOST AS IF,
IF YOU ARE A GAY PERSON
YOU CAN ADOPT A SPECIAL
NEEDS CHILD OR A CHILD
THAT'S BEEN IN SOME WAYS
DAMAGED OR YOU KNOW, A
CHILD WHO NOBODY ELSE
WANTS.
BUT THAT YOU'RE NOT...
YOU KNOW IT NEVER OCCURRED
TO US THAT WE COULD HAVE A
NORMAL HEALTHY CHILD.
IT WAS NEVER
PRESENTED THAT WAY.
NEVER.
AND WE NEVER
CONCEIVED THAT.
>> THE PARENTS OF THESE
SIX FAMILIES HAVE
DESCRIBED SOME OF THE
CHALLENGES THAT THEIR
CHILDREN HAVE FACED.
>> THEY GET TEASED
A LITTLE BIT.
>> HOW?
GIVE US SOME EXAMPLES.
>> WELL, A
COUPLE OF THEM...
THE CHILDREN ASSUME THAT
THEY'RE GAY JUST BECAUSE
THEY HAVE GAY PARENTS.
AND THAT UPSETS THEM.
>> WHO ASSUMES?
>> COREEN: THE
OTHER CHILDREN.
>> BUT YOUR KIDS ARE NOT
ASSUMING THAT THEY'RE GAY?
>> COREEN: NO.
THEY DON'T THINK
THEY'RE GAY AT ALL.
>> WE ARE TALKING WITH THE
FOUR CHILDREN OF COREEN
AND SUE.
HOW ARE THEY SIBLINGS?
>> HOW DOES THAT WORK?
HOW ARE YOU SIBLINGS?
>> SAME DONOR.
>> YOU HAVE
THE SAME DONOR.
WHAT DOES THAT MEAN?
>> SOMEONE DONATED
SPERM TO...
BECAUSE MOM DOESN'T
LIKE MEN OR WHATEVER.
BOTH OF OUR MOMS WANTED
THE SAME DONOR SO WE COULD
BE BROTHER AND SISTER
OR BROTHER AND BROTHER,
WHATEVER IT WOULD BE.
>> I INVITED A FRIEND
OVER, AND THEN THEY CAME
OVER AND HE WENT HOME
BECAUSE HE DIDN'T KNOW
THAT I HAD TWO MOMS.
AND IT SCARED HIM BECAUSE
HE'S NEVER BEEN AROUND TWO
AT THE SAME TIME.
>> ONE OF THESE KIDS SAID,
WAS TEASING ME ABOUT HOW
MY MOM WAS GAY.
SO I GOT IN THIS HUGE
FIGHT WITH FISTS LIKE
SOCKING, AND THAT'S
HOW I GOT SUSPENDED.
>> IT DOESN'T MATTER.
IT'S LIKE TWO DADS STILL
DON'T LOVE YOU MORE THAN
TWO MOMS.
OUR TWO MOMS DON'T LOVE
YOU MORE THAN TWO DADS OR
A MOM AND A DAD.
>> SUE: WHEN SHE WAS READY
TO START ASKING QUESTIONS,
IT'S THE TIME THAT THEY'RE
READY TO START HEARING
THE ANSWERS.
SO I TERMED IT THAT THERE
ARE SOME FATHERS THAT...
DADS ARE OUT THERE THAT
ARE MEANT TO BE, HELP TO
GET MOMMIES PREGNANT, BUT
THEY'RE NOT REALLY IN
YOUR LIFE.
AND SO WE JUST EXPLAINED
IT THAT WAY AND SHE SEEMED
OKAY WITH THE ANSWER.
IF SHE WERE TO ASK
QUESTIONS, THEN I WOULD
GIVE HER MORE.
AND IT'S THE SAME
WITH THE BOYS.
THEY WERE...
IT WAS INTERESTING THAT
THEY'D ROLE-PLAY AND ONE
OF THEM, THE BOYS WOULD BE
THE MOM OR THE BOYS WOULD
BE A DAD.
SO THEY WOULD KIND OF
WORK THINGS OUT IN THEIR
CHILDHOOD WAY
THAT THEY COULD.
BUT THEN THEY WOULD ASK
QUESTIONS AS WELL AND WE
WOULD EXPLAIN THE WHOLE
SCENARIO OVER AGAIN.
YOU HAVE TWO MOMS.
YOU HAD A DONOR DADDY WHO
WAS VERY WONDERFUL IN
BEING ABLE TO HELP OTHER
PEOPLE HAVE CHILDREN.
>> WE TALKED TO SAM, THE
OLDEST OF THE CHILDREN IN
THE FILM, ABOUT HIS
FRIENDS AND WHAT THEY
THOUGHT OF HIS
UNIQUE HOME.
>> SAM: AT FIRST
THEY'RE VERY...
THEY DON'T KNOW WHAT;
LIKE "YOU HAVE TWO MOMS.
THAT'S SO STRANGE." .
AND THEN YOU FINALLY
EXPLAINED TO THEM, IT'S
LIKE "YEAH, MY MOM
WENT TO A SPERM BANK.
MY PARENTS ARE LESBIANS."
AND EVERYTHING LIKE THAT.
AND THEY'RE JUST LIKE
"WOW" AND THEY JUST THINK
IT'S INTERESTING.
>> IN RESPONSE TO THE
QUESTION, DOES BEING
RAISED BY GAY
PARENTS MAKE YOU GAY?
SAM SAYS...
>> SAM: OH I THINK
THAT'S TOTALLY WRONG.
I MEAN, MY
PARENTS ARE GAY BUT
I LIKE WOMEN.
I MEAN, I LOVE...
I WOULD NEVER THINK OF
PROBABLY BEING GAY.
I'VE HAD A BLAST.
I MEAN, DONE EVERYTHING
A NORMAL KID WOULD DO.
>> DO THE CHILDREN NOTICE
ANY DIFFERENCES IN
THEIR FAMILIES?
DO THEY KNOW THAT
THEIR WORLD IS UNIQUE?
>> THE OTHER DAY WE WERE
AT A RESTAURANT AND THERE
WAS A TABLE WITH WHAT
CLEARLY LOOKED TO ME LIKE
TWO HETEROSEXUAL
FAMILIES THERE.
SO THERE WAS TWO MEN AND
TWO WOMEN AND THREE OR
FOUR KIDS SITTING AROUND A
TABLE EATING DINNER AT
A RESTAURANT.
LISA AND I ARE
WERE WITH THE KIDS.
AND ZIAN LOOKS OVER AND
SAYS "HEY, IT LOOKS LIKE
THAT'S A FAMILY
LIKE OURS." .
AND YOU KNOW, SURE
ENOUGH IT COULD'VE BEEN.
I DON'T THINK IT WAS.
BUT FOR HIM FOR SURE, YOU
WERE ABLE TO SEE HE
WAS LOOKING.
HE SAW SOMETHING THAT
LOOKED LIKE HIS WORLD AND
HE REALLY
CONNECTED WITH IT.
>> GEOFFREY: WAS IT,
HE WAS THREE MAYBE.
I FORGET WHEN IT WAS, AND
I WAS HOME WITH HIM IN AN
AIRPORT IN PORTLAND AND HE
RUNS UP AND HE STARTS TO
TELL ME "I HAVE TWO
MOMS AND TWO DADS".
AND HOW SELF KNOWING THAT
IT IS, I DON'T KNOW.
BUT LIKE KNOWING THAT
THERE IS SOMETHING NOT
LIKE EVERY OTHER...
HEY, LIKE MOST FAMILIES
DON'T HAVE TWO MOMS AND
TWO DADS.
BUT BEING AWARE OF THAT,
BUT NOT BEING IS IT A
STIGMA YET OR IS IT
DIFFERENT IN SOME KIND OF
A SUBCONSCIOUS WAY.
YEAH, I DON'T
THINK THAT'S...
THEY SEEM TO BE
PRETTY PROUD OF IT.
THE PART THEY'VE EXPRESSED
SADNESS; WELL NOT SADNESS;
BUT YOU KNOW "SO-AND-SO
ONLY HAS ONE DADDY AND ONE
MOMMY", LIKE FEELING
"THEY'RE KIND OF SHAFTED,
BECAUSE I'VE GOT
TWO OF EACH." .
>> WHAT IS THE OPINION OF
THE MEDICAL COMMUNITY?
ARE THERE SPECIAL
CONSIDERATIONS WHEN
LESBIANS WANT TO
BE INSEMINATED?
>> I'VE BEEN DOING THIS
FOR 20, A LOT OF YEARS.
24 YEARS.
AND ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
OVER TIME HAS BECOME CLEAR
IS THAT ONE'S SEXUAL
ORIENTATION HAS NOT
ANYWHERE NEAR AS MUCH TO
DO WITH ONE'S ABILITY
TO PARENT AS NEWSWEEK
MAGAZINE WOULD LIKE YOU
TO THINK.
MARRIAGE, SINGLENESS OR
SEXUAL ORIENTATION AREN'T
FACTORS THAT DEFINE FOR US
WHETHER WE'LL TREAT THEM
OR NOT.
>> THE ADULTS IN THESE
FAMILIES FACE THEIR
CRITICS.
WHAT ARE THEIR
BELIEFS AND CONCERNS?
>> COREEN: THEY
MAKE ME MAD.
THEY WANT TO TAKE IT AWAY
FROM PEOPLE WHO REALLY
WANT IT.
PEOPLE WHO DON'T WANT
IT, THEY CAN JUST...
YOU KNOW, HAVE KIDS
WHENEVER THEY WANT.
IT'S MOSTLY ANGER.
>> I MEAN HAVE YOU HAD
TO FACE UP TO THAT?
HAVE YOU BEEN CHIDED?
>> COREEN: NO.
>> HAVE YOU BEEN GIVEN A
HARD TIME EVER FOR YOUR
DECISION BY ANYONE?
BUT YOU KNOW
IT'S OUT THERE.
I MEAN, IT'S HARD TO LIVE
IN COLORADO AND NOT
BE AWARE.
>> COREEN: I CAN'T EVEN
STAND TO LISTEN TO
THE STATION.
BECAUSE THEY'RE JUST SO...
I DO KNOW HOW YOU
COULD BE SO BACKWARDS.
WHAT IS IT THAT THEY
THINK WE'RE GOING TO DO?
THAT'S WHAT I'D
LIKE TO KNOW.
TO THOSE KIDS, WHAT COULD
I POSSIBLY DO TO THEM THAT
REGULAR PARENTS AREN'T
GOING TO DO TO THEIR KIDS?
>> WHAT DO YOU
THINK IS THE BELIEF?
>> COREEN: THEY THINK
WE'RE GOING TO MAKE
MORE HOMOSEXUALS.
GOD FORBID WE HAVE MORE
HOMOSEXUALS AROUND.
BECAUSE THAT'LL MAKE
THE WORLD WORSE.
I HAVE FIVE KIDS, NONE
OF THEM HAVE SHOWN ANY
HOMOSEXUAL TENDENCIES.
AND I DON'T REALLY
CARE IF THEY DO OR NOT.
WHAT HAPPENED?
MY MOTHER WAS STRAIGHT,
MY FATHER WAS STRAIGHT.
HOW DID I END UP GAY?
I MEAN, IT'S RIDICULOUS.
AND MOST OF THE TIME THOSE
RELIGIOUS PEOPLE END UP,
YOU KNOW, HAVING
A GAY CHILD.
AND THEN WHAT'S THAT GAY
CHILD GOT TO GO THROUGH?
YOU KNOW, THAT POOR KID'S
GOING TO BE STUCK IN THE
HOUSE AND END UP HAVING
TO GO THROUGH PSYCHOLOGY
OR...
YOU KNOW WHAT I'M
TALKING ABOUT.
>> YES, ABSOLUTELY.
>> COREEN: THERAPY.
BECAUSE HIS PARENTS
DON'T UNDERSTAND HIM.
WHEREAS I UNDERSTAND IF
THEY'RE STRAIGHT, I'M NOT
GOING TO MAKE THEM FEEL
LIKE THEY SHOULDN'T
BE ALIVE.
WHEREAS THOSE PARENTS MAKE
THOSE KIDS FEEL LIKE THEY
SHOULDN'T BE ALIVE.
THEY GET INTO HIGH SCHOOL
AND THEY COMMIT SUICIDE,
BECAUSE THOSE PARENTS
DON'T SUPPORT THEM.
I JUST THINK IT'S FOOLISH.
>> STEVE: MY RESPONSE TO
THAT IS NARROWMINDEDNESS.
IT AMAZES ME HOW MANY
PEOPLE ARE SUPPORTIVE OF
WHAT WE'RE DOING.
WE'VE GONE TO A TINY TOWN;
JOHN'S FROM A SMALL TOWN
ON THE EASTERN PLAINS,
AND WE WERE OUT SOMEPLACE
THERE JUST RECENTLY.
AND I HAD PEOPLE COMING UP
TO ME, MEN COMING UP TO ME
AND SAYING "WOW, IT IS SO
GREAT WHAT YOU'RE DOING." .
THEY KNOW THE STORY.
THEY KNOW WE'RE GAY.
THEY DON'T SPEAK OF IT,
BUT THEY KNOW WHAT'S GOING
ON AND THEY ARE
SUPPORTIVE.
SO WHEN PEOPLE REALLY KNOW
YOU AND THEY KNOW YOUR
INTENTION...
IT'S SUDDENLY NOT
EVEN AN ISSUE.
I HAVE FEARS ABOUT THE
TIME WHEN HE MAYBE GETS
ANGRY, THAT HE IS...
THAT HE GREW UP IN A
NON-TRADITIONAL FAMILY.
BECAUSE IT MAY
BE A STRUGGLE.
AND I HAVE AT TIMES FEARS
ABOUT THAT, ABOUT THAT
CONVERSATION THAT I HAVE
WITH HIM, OF HIM RUNNING
TO GO MOVE OUT AND YOU
KNOW, BEING MAD AT US.
BUT JOHN'S MUCH MORE
LEVELHEADED THAN I AM AND
HE, I THINK HE PROVIDES
THE STEADY PERSPECTIVE.
AND I'M REMINDED EASILY
WHEN I'M WITH JOHN THAT AS
MUCH AS WE'RE GOING TO BE
ABLE TO OFFER HIM, I THINK
HE'S GOING TO BE A
REALLY HAPPY KID.
>> A LOT OF PEOPLE WOULD
SAY THAT THIS IS IMMORAL,
THIS IS WRONG.
>> JEANNIE: WELL THAT'S
A POLITICAL AGENDA.
THAT IS NOT A CHRISTIAN
MORAL AGENDA.
AND AGAIN, YOU KNOW, TAKE
A LOOK AT WHAT THEY'RE
DOING.
HOW MANY OF THEM HAVE
ADOPTED SPECIAL NEEDS
KIDS?
YOU KNOW THEY'RE ALL ABOUT
TAKING KIDS AWAY FROM US,
BUT YOU DON'T SEE THEM
DOING ANYTHING FOR THE
CHILDREN.
FOR THEM, THIS IS NOT
ABOUT THE CHILDREN, THIS
IS ABOUT THEIR OWN
POLITICAL AGENDA.
AND SO I SAY SCREW THEM,
IF I CAN BE THAT BLUNT.
WHAT REALLY ANGERS ME
ABOUT THE PEOPLE THAT
WOULD PREVENT US FROM BOTH
ADOPTING THESE KIDS IS THE
FACT THAT, FIRST OF ALL,
THIS IS NOT A GAY RIGHTS
ISSUE, THIS IS NOT A GAY
MARRIAGE ISSUE, THIS IS A
CHILDREN'S RIGHTS ISSUE.
AND THEY ARE GOING TO
LIVE WITH US, REGARDLESS.
WHETHER WE BOTH ADOPT THEM
OR ONE OF US ADOPTS THEM.
BUT BY BOTH OF US BEING
ABLE TO ADOPT THEM, WHAT
THIS GUARANTEES
IS THEIR FUTURE.
INSURANCE, SOCIAL SECURITY
BENEFITS, SHOULD EITHER
ONE OF US DIE, GOD FORBID.
IF FOR EXAMPLE, MARY
ADOPTED THEM AND SOMETHING
HAPPENED TO MARY, RATHER
THAN THE CHILDREN
AUTOMATICALLY COMING TO ME
THEY WOULD BE BACK IN THE
SOCIAL SERVICES SYSTEM AND
THEIR FUTURE WOULD BE JUST
AS UNCERTAIN AS IT WAS
WHEN THEY WERE WITH
THEIR PARENTS.
AND WHAT THIS DOES IS IT
GUARANTEES THAT THEY WILL
BE PROTECTED.
PEOPLE FORGET THAT.
PEOPLE WITH ALL THESE
OTHER AGENDAS DON'T EVEN
CONSIDER WHAT WE'RE
GUARANTEEING FOR THE
CHILDREN BY DOING THIS.
>> VIOLA: IT'S BRINGING
SOMEONE INTO A LOVING
FAMILY THAT'S IMPORTANT.
>> LESLEE: WE ARE
DISCRIMINATED AGAINST
BECAUSE OF OUR
RELATIONSHIP.
IT TIES YOUR
HANDS LEGALLY.
I MEAN, YOU'VE GOT TO
FIGURE OUT, OKAY NOW WE'RE
IN A GOOD SITUATION
BECAUSE HE'S 18 YEARS OLD.
I MEAN, HE CAN GO TO A
JUDGE AND SAY "FOR THE
LAST 3 1/2 YEARS OF MY
LIFE I WANT TO HAVE THIS
PERSON" IF SOMETHING WERE
TO HAPPEN TO ME" I WANT TO
HAVE VI AS MY MOM
OR MY GUARDIAN." .
I'M GREAT FOR ADOPTION,
BUT WHAT IF HE WERE TWO OR
THREE?
AND THEN SOMEONE IN
YOUR FAMILY TRIED TO
TAKE HIM AWAY.
IT WOULD BE BAD.
REALLY BAD.
AND THEN FINANCIALLY,
SOCIAL SECURITY.
SORRY.
I'M IN GOOD SHAPE BECAUSE
I WORK FOR THE STATE.
AND AS YOU ALL KNOW, YOU
CAN DESIGNATE WHO GETS
YOUR BENEFITS.
BUT IF VI DIES, NO
ONE GETS BENEFITS.
AND THAT CERTAINLY WOULD
BE NICE FOR SAM TO HAVE
SOME BENEFITS
FROM HIS MOM.
>> HOW HAS THIS CHANGED
THE LIVES OF THE PARENTS?
WHAT ARE THEIR WISHES
FOR THEIR CHILDREN?
>> COREEN: I JUST WANT
THEM TO GROW UP
TO BE NICE.
NOT MAKE JUDGMENTS
ON OTHER PEOPLE.
>> WHAT MORE
COULD YOU ASK?
I MEAN, THAT'S
WHAT WE WOULD HOPE.
HEALTHY, NICE KIDS.
>> COREEN: YOU DON'T WANT
THEM TO BE JUDGING THEM IF
THEY'RE BLACK OR THEY'RE
WHITE OR THEY'RE GAY OR
THEY'RE BROWN OR
THEY'RE SHORT.
>> SUE: I REALLY DON'T
THINK THEY MISS OUT A LOT.
LIKE I SAID, I CAN'T
REALLY IDENTIFY ANYTHING
THAT I THINK THEY WOULD BE
LACKING IN EXPERIENCING.
>> WOULD IT BE
DISAPPOINTING IF ALL YOUR
CHILDREN TURNED
OUT STRAIGHT?
>> SUE: NO, NOT AT ALL.
NOT AT ALL.
WHO WOULD CHOOSE
THE GAY LIFESTYLE?
IT CAN BE A HARD LIFESTYLE
AS FAR AS.... YOU KNOW,
AGAIN, I'VE BEEN FORTUNATE
IN THE FAMILY SUPPORT AND
NOT LOSING THE
FAMILY AND FRIENDS.
BUT IT'S NOT A LIFESTYLE
THAT YOU'D WISH UPON
YOURSELF A LOT OF TIMES.
SO IF THEY'RE
STRAIGHT, FINE.
IF THEY'RE GAY,
I'LL BE THERE.
>> I THINK SHE GETS SO
MUCH LOVE, IT'S AMAZING.
IT IS WHAT IT IS.
I HAVE A VERY BUDDHIST
OUTLOOK ON IT.
I MEAN, HOW SHE WOULD BE
RAISED IF I WERE STRAIGHT
AND HAPPILY MARRIED WOULD
BE DIFFERENT THAN IF I
WERE STRAIGHT AND
UNHAPPILY MARRIED, IF I
WERE A WORKING MOM
OR A SINGLE MOM OR A
STAY-AT-HOME MOM.
IT'S HARD FOR ME TO
IMAGINE WHAT HER LIFE
WOULD BE LIKE IF I WERE
DIFFERENT AND THE WAY WE
HAVE CRAFTED OUR FAMILY
LIFE HAD BEEN DIFFERENT.
ALL I KNOW IS THAT
SHE'S VERY LOVED.
SHE HAS SO MANY PEOPLE
WHO ADORE HER, WHO ARE
TANGENTIALLY RELATED OR
BIOLOGICALLY RELATED OR
FAMILIARLY RELATED.
I MEAN, TO ME IT'S LIKE
THE BEST OF ALL WORLDS IN
A CERTAIN WAY.
>> ALLISON: SO IN A HUGE
WAY I FEEL SO LUCKY TO
HAVE IT COME UP THIS WAY.
AND THEN THE OTHER PIECE
THAT FEELS SO LUCKY IS... I
VALUE MY KIDS AND MY FAMILY
AND PUTTING A LOT OF TIME
AND ENERGY INTO IT, AS
I THINK MANY PEOPLE DO.
THEY HAVE THIS VISION OF
THEIR FAMILY THAT THEY
WANT IT TO BE.
BUT I WOULD SAY THAT SO
MANY PEOPLE JUST CAN'T
DO IT ALL.
YOU CAN'T ALSO KEEP YOUR
CAREER RUNNING AS GREAT AS
YOU WOULD LIKE IT
TO AND YOUR FAMILY.
YOU KNOW THINGS JUST SLIP.
OH I FORGOT TO HAVE THAT
CONVERSATION WITH ZIAN
TODAY, OR WHATEVER.
BECAUSE THERE'S JUST
NOT ENOUGH TIME.
AND THE BIGGEST THING I'VE
REALLY FELT IS JUST WE
HAVE MORE TIME.
LISA AND I GET TWO NIGHTS
A WEEK WHERE WE CAN BE
DOING OUR WORK OR FLEXING
OUR SCHEDULE OR DOING A
DATE NIGHT, AS
DO JEFF AND MARK.
THEN ALL FOUR OF US HAVE
VERY THRIVING CAREERS.
WHICH NOT TO SAY THAT
THAT'S, NOT JUST TO PUT
THE VALUE ON TO HAVE THAT
CAREER, BUT IT'S WHAT
WE'VE ALL WANTED TO DO.
SO WE'VE ALL REALLY BEEN
ABLE TO MAINTAIN CAREERS
AND PUT A LOT OF ENERGY
AND TIME INTO OUR FAMILY.
>> COREEN: I MEAN I HAVE
THE SAME ISSUES THEY HAVE.
JUST BECAUSE I CHOOSE TO
LOVE A WOMAN INSTEAD OF A
MAN DOESN'T MAKE ANY
DIFFERENCE HOW I FEEL
ABOUT MY CHILDREN.
>> JOHN: WE WANT WHAT
EVERY PARENT WANTS.
IT IS FOR HIM TO GROW UP
AND BECOME THE BEST MOST
WELL-ROUNDED PERSON
THAT HE CAN BECOME.
AND AS FAR AS HAVING FEARS
ABOUT YOU KNOW, WHAT
SOCIETY IS GOING TO THINK
OR PRESSURES ON HIM BY
HAVING TWO DADS, I'VE
THOUGHT ALL ALONG I JUST
HOPE THAT WE DO A
GREAT JOB RAISING HIM.
AND THAT HE'LL BE ABLE TO
HANDLE WHAT IS OUT THERE
FOR HIM.
AND I THINK THAT EVERY
PARENT JUST WANTS
ABSOLUTELY THE BEST FOR
THEIR CHILD, AND THAT'S
WHAT WE WANT.
AND WE KNOW, WE JUST KNOW
THAT WE HAVE SO MUCH TO
OFFER FOR HIM AND SO
MUCH LOVE FOR HIM.
AND I HAVE CONFIDENCE THAT
HE WILL BE THE INTELLIGENT
WELL-ROUNDED GIFTED YOUNG
MAN THAT WE THINK HE'S
GOING TO BE AND HE CAN
HANDLE ANYTHING THAT LIFE
THROWS AT HIM.
>> DANIELLE: WE WERE
CERTAINLY BROUGHT TOGETHER
BY SOME GREAT FORCE.
THERE'S JUST NO
DOUBT ABOUT THAT.
AND YOU KNOW, THAT'S
ANOTHER REALLY
IMPORTANT POINT.
YOU KNOW WHEN THEY WERE IN
THE ROOM AND CARTER WAS
BORN, YOU KNOW, WE JUST
LOOKED AT EACH OTHER
AND WE WERE CRYING
AND I WAS LIKE
"CONGRATULATIONS, DAD".
AND THEY'RE
"CONGRATULATIONS, MOM".
AND IT WAS UNREAL.
YOU CAN'T EVEN IMAGINE.
>> JOHN: AND I ALSO THINK
THAT SOCIETY IS CHANGING.
AND THAT WHEN HE IS OLDER
THAT IT'S GOING TO BE
MORE ACCEPTABLE.
IT'S CERTAINLY MORE
ACCEPTABLE NOW THAN
IT WAS 10, 15 YEARS AGO.
AND I THINK IN ANOTHER 10
OR 15 YEARS WE'RE GOING TO
CONTINUE TO MAKE ADVANCES.
>> THE GRANDMOTHER OF THE
TRIPLET BOYS, COREEN'S
MOTHER ROXANNE, GIVES
ADVICE FOR FAMILY MEMBERS
IN SIMILAR CIRCUMSTANCES.
>> JUST ACCEPT THEM.
LOVE.
AND GET OVER YOUR
PRECONCEIVED IDEAS.
IF I HAD DECIDED THAT
I WASN'T GOING TO HAVE
ANYTHING TO DO WITH COREEN
BECAUSE SHE WAS GAY OR IF
I HAD DECIDED I WASN'T
GOING TO HAVE ANYTHING TO
DO WITH THE CHILDREN, MY
LIFE WOULD BE A LOT LESS
FULL THAN WHAT IT IS.
I'D BE LACKING IN
A LOT OF AREAS.
>> JEANNIE: THERE'S
NO SUCH THING AS AN
ACCIDENTAL PREGNANCY
IN A GAY OR LESBIAN
RELATIONSHIP.
THERE'S NO SUCH THING AS
HAVING TO GET MARRIED AND
BEING FORCED TO
RAISE CHILDREN.
WE DO NOT HAVE
UNWANTED CHILDREN.
THINK ABOUT THAT.
>> THESE SIX FAMILIES HAVE
BEEN THE EDUCATORS
FOR THIS FILM.
THEY TEACH US TO SUSPEND
OUR JUDGMENT AND CHALLENGE
OUR PREJUDICE.
THE DESIRE FOR GAY AND
LESBIAN COUPLES TO HAVE
CHILDREN HAS GIVEN US
THE LIVES OF CARTER,
SASHA, EVINN, MORGAN,
ELIOT, ZIAN, JESSE, ORION,
ANTHONY, MEGGAN AND SAM.
WHETHER BY INSEMINATION,
ADOPTION OR CO-PARENTING,
THESE FAMILIES TEACH US
ABOUT LOVE, COMMITMENT AND
THE MANY MEANINGS
OF FAMILY.